# Chatbot Hallucination Detection and Dialogue Generation
This repository contains code files for the implementation of a chatbot system that addresses the issues of hallucination detection and dialogue generation. The system aims to improve the quality of responses generated by chatbots by detecting hallucination and generating contextually appropriate and accurate replies.

Files

The repository includes the following files:

MileStone2
    - Hallucination_Classification.ipynb: This Jupyter Notebook contains the code for training a Hallucination classifier using the Roberta-base model. This serves as a Basseline for future Models


MileStone3

    - Task1
        -Data_Preprocessing_Dependency_Parsing_and_Classification.ipynb: This Jupyter Notebook contains the code for preprocessing data for dependency parsing and updating the augmented dataset. This model has oscillating loss and 0 F1 score.

        - Hallucination_Classification_Cross_Entropy_Loss.ipynb: This Jupyter Notebook contains the code for training a Hallucination classifier using the Roberta-base model trained on Augmented data and uses hypertuned Cross Entropy Loss.

        - Hallucination_Classification_Data_Augmentation.ipynb: This Jupyter Notebook contains the code for training a Hallucination classifier using the Roberta-base model trained on Augmented data.

        - Hallucination_Classification_Dice_Loss.ipynb: This Jupyter Notebook contains the code for training a Hallucination classifier using the Roberta-base model trained the original data and uses Dice Loss. This model has oscillating loss and 0 F1 score.

        - Hallucination_Classification_Focal_Loss.ipynb: TThis Jupyter Notebook contains the code for training a Hallucination classifier using the Roberta-base model trained on Augmented data and uses Focal Loss
    
    -Task 2
        -BEGIN_Classifier_Roberta_Sequence.ipynb: This Jupyter Notebook contains the code for training a classifier using the Roberta-base model to classify BEGIN embeddings in the  dataset.

    -BEGIN_Classifier_bert_base_uncased.ipynb: This Jupyter Notebook contains the code for training a classifier using the bert-base-uncased model to classify BEGIN embeddings in the dataset.

    -BEGIN_Classifier_testing.ipynb: This Jupyter Notebook contains the code for testing the trained BEGIN classifier and evaluating its performance.

    -DialogueGenerationV2.ipynb: This Jupyter Notebook contains the code for training a dialogue generation model using the T5-base model.

    -VRM_Classifier_Roberta_Sequence.ipynb: This Jupyter Notebook contains the code for training a classifier using the Roberta-base model to classify VRM embeddings in the  dataset.

    -VRM_Classifier_bert_base_cased.ipynb: This Jupyter Notebook contains the code for training a classifier using the bert-base-cased model to classify VRM embeddings in the  dataset.
    
    - Task 3
            -DialogueGenrationV2_Focal_Loss.ipynb: This Jupyter Notebook contains the code for training a dialogue generation model using the T5-base model and uses Focal Loss




The code in this repository is based on the research and findings presented in the paper "FAITHDIAL: A Faithful Benchmark for Information-Seeking Dialogue." We acknowledge the authors of the paper for their valuable insights and contributions.
